README.md, before:

<h1 style="text-align: center;">
Memories of Forgotten Concepts <br> CVPR 2025 (Highlight)
</h1>

<a href="https://matanr.github.io/Memories_of_Forgotten_Concepts/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Project&message=Website&color=blue"></a>
<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00782"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv-2311.17891-b31b1b.svg"></a>





<img src="images/teaser.png">


> [Memories of Forgotten Concepts](https://matanr.github.io/Memories_of_Forgotten_Concepts/)
>
>
> [Matan Rusanovsky<sup>*</sup>](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=5TS4vucAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao), [Shimon Malnick<sup>*</sup>](https://www.malnick.net), [Amir Jevnisek<sup>*</sup>](https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=czm6bkUAAAAJ), [Ohad Fried](https://www.ohadf.com/), [Shai Avidan](http://www.eng.tau.ac.il/~avidan/)
>
>
> <sup>*</sup>Equal Contribution
>
> ❓ Many studies aim to erase concepts from diffusion models. While these models may no longer generate images tied to the erased concept when prompted, we ask: **Is the concept truly erased? Could the model still reproduce it through other means?**
>
> ↪️Instead of analyzing a model that erased some concept by generating many images and analyzing them, we propose a method that analyzes it using latents that generate the erased concept.

<br>

</div>

# Getting Started
## Requirements:
1. Download [mscoco17](https://cocodataset.org/#download).
2. Download the ablated models (Links for [[Object](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1e5aX8gkC34YaHGR0S1-EQwBmUXiAPvpE/view), [Others](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1yeZNJ8MoHsisdZmt5lbnG_kSgl5xned0/view)]).
3. Generate the datasets of the erased concepts using the appropriate csv file. For example, to generate the Nudity dataset:
```shell
cd Memories_of_Forgotten_Concepts/src
export CONCEPT=nudity
export PROMPT_FILE=../prompts/${CONCEPT}.csv
export SAVE_PATH=../datasets
mkdir -p $SAVE_PATH
python generate_dataset.py --prompts_path ${PROMPT_FILE} --concept ${CONCEPT} --save_path ${SAVE_PATH} --device cuda:0
```
For objects use the ```generate_object_dataset.py```, for example to generate the Parachute object dataset:
```shell
cd Memories_of_Forgotten_Concepts/src
export CONCEPT=parachute
export SAVE_PATH=../datasets
mkdir -p $SAVE_PATH
python generate_object_dataset.py --concept ${CONCEPT} --save_path ${SAVE_PATH}
```
4. Download the [style classifier](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1me_MOrXip1Xa-XaUrPZZY7i49pgFe1po/view) for detection of the Van Gogh concept. Add an environmen variable for the classifier:
```shell
export STYLE_CLASSIFIER_DIR=/path/to/cls/dir
```

## Setup Environment
### Conda + pip
create an environment using the supplied requirements.txt file:
```shell
git clone https://github.com/matanr/Memories_of_Forgotten_Concepts
cd Memories_of_Forgotten_Concepts/src
conda create -n mem python=3.10
conda activate mem
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### [Docker Setup Information](docker/DOCKER-INFO.md)

## Running
#### Output directory
Make sure the outputs directory contains the ``concept`` name in either configuration.
In addition, it is recommended to specify the model name and the experimental configuration.
For example, when running on ``ESD`` that erased the concept ``nudity``, in the ``concept-level`` configuration, set: 

```
<out directory>=memories_of_ESD_nudity
```
Similarly, in the "image-level" configuration, set:
```
<out directory>=many_memories_of_ESD_nudity
```
#### Ablated Model
For all models except for AdvUnlearn, set:
```
--ablated_model <path to the ablated model>
```
Instead, for AdvUnlearn, include: 
```
--ablated_text_encoder OPTML-Group/AdvUnlearn
```
💡 Only one of these two options (--ablated_model or --ablated_text_encoder) should be used at a time, according to the model that is being analyzed.

### Concept-Level
Perform a concept-level analysis:

```shell
python memory_of_an_ablated_concept.py
--reference_dataset_root <path to mscoco17>
--out_dir <out directory>
--ablated_concept_name <nudity/vangogh/church/garbage_truck/tench/parachute>
--dataset_root <path to the dataset of images of ablated_concept_name>
--diffusion_inversion_method <renoise/nti>
--num_diffusion_inversion_steps 50
[--ablated_model <path to the ablated model> | --ablated_text_encoder OPTML-Group/AdvUnlearn]
```

### Image-Level
Perform an image-level analysis:
```shell
python many_memories_of_an_ablated_image.py 
--reference_dataset_root <path to mscoco17>
--out_dir <out directory>
--ablated_concept_name <nudity/vangogh/church/garbage_truck/tench/parachute>
--dataset_root <path to the dataset of images of ablated_concept_name>
--num_vae_inversion_steps 3000
--diffusion_inversion_method <renoise/nti>
--num_diffusion_inversion_steps 50
[--ablated_model <path to the ablated model> | --ablated_text_encoder OPTML-Group/AdvUnlearn]
```

# BibTex
```bib
@InProceedings{Rusanovsky_2025_CVPR,
    author    = {Rusanovsky, Matan and Malnick, Shimon and Jevnisek, Amir and Fried, Ohad and Avidan, Shai},
    title     = {Memories of Forgotten Concepts},
    booktitle = {Proceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference (CVPR)},
    month     = {June},
    year      = {2025},
    pages     = {2966-2975}
}
```

# Acknowledgments
This repository is built upon and incorporates code from [Diffusion-MU-Attack](https://github.com/OPTML-Group/Diffusion-MU-Attack), [AdvUnlearn](https://github.com/OPTML-Group/AdvUnlearn) and [Renoise](https://github.com/garibida/ReNoise-Inversion).

Commit message:

run python scripts as mod to improve Colab compatibility

README.md, after:

<h1 style="text-align: center;">
Memories of Forgotten Concepts <br> CVPR 2025
</h1>

This is a fork, please see the original project [Memories of Forgotten Concepts](https://matanr.github.io/Memories_of_Forgotten_Concepts/) made by  [Matan Rusanovsky<sup>*</sup>](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=5TS4vucAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao), [Shimon Malnick<sup>*</sup>](https://www.malnick.net), [Amir Jevnisek<sup>*</sup>](https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=czm6bkUAAAAJ), [Ohad Fried](https://www.ohadf.com/), [Shai Avidan](http://www.eng.tau.ac.il/~avidan/)

> ❓ Many studies aim to erase concepts from diffusion models. While these models may no longer generate images tied to the erased concept when prompted, we ask: **Is the concept truly erased? Could the model still reproduce it through other means?**
>
> ↪️Instead of analyzing a model that erased some concept by generating many images and analyzing them, we propose a method that analyzes it using latents that generate the erased concept.

All rights are of the original authors.

The purpose of this fork is to reproduce the experiments and make some minor adjustments (without changing the code) to make it easier for others to reproduce this project.

Expect changes in this README.

---

# Getting Started
## Requirements:
1. Download [mscoco17](https://cocodataset.org/#download).
2. Download the ablated models (Links for [[Object](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1e5aX8gkC34YaHGR0S1-EQwBmUXiAPvpE/view), [Others](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1yeZNJ8MoHsisdZmt5lbnG_kSgl5xned0/view)]).
3. Generate the datasets of the erased concepts using the appropriate csv file. For example, to generate the Nudity dataset:
```shell
cd Memories_of_Forgotten_Concepts/src
export CONCEPT=nudity
export PROMPT_FILE=../prompts/${CONCEPT}.csv
export SAVE_PATH=../datasets
mkdir -p $SAVE_PATH
python generate_dataset.py --prompts_path ${PROMPT_FILE} --concept ${CONCEPT} --save_path ${SAVE_PATH} --device cuda:0
```
For objects use the ```generate_object_dataset.py```, for example to generate the Parachute object dataset:
```shell
cd Memories_of_Forgotten_Concepts/src
export CONCEPT=parachute
export SAVE_PATH=../datasets
mkdir -p $SAVE_PATH
python generate_object_dataset.py --concept ${CONCEPT} --save_path ${SAVE_PATH}
```
4. Download the [style classifier](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1me_MOrXip1Xa-XaUrPZZY7i49pgFe1po/view) for detection of the Van Gogh concept. Add an environmen variable for the classifier:
```shell
export STYLE_CLASSIFIER_DIR=/path/to/cls/dir
```

## Setup Environment
### Conda + pip
create an environment using the supplied requirements.txt file:
```shell
git clone https://github.com/matanr/Memories_of_Forgotten_Concepts
cd Memories_of_Forgotten_Concepts/src
conda create -n mem python=3.10
conda activate mem
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### [Docker Setup Information](docker/DOCKER-INFO.md)

## Running
#### Output directory
Make sure the outputs directory contains the ``concept`` name in either configuration.
In addition, it is recommended to specify the model name and the experimental configuration.
For example, when running on ``ESD`` that erased the concept ``nudity``, in the ``concept-level`` configuration, set: 

```
<out directory>=memories_of_ESD_nudity
```
Similarly, in the "image-level" configuration, set:
```
<out directory>=many_memories_of_ESD_nudity
```
#### Ablated Model
For all models except for AdvUnlearn, set:
```
--ablated_model <path to the ablated model>
```
Instead, for AdvUnlearn, include: 
```
--ablated_text_encoder OPTML-Group/AdvUnlearn
```
💡 Only one of these two options (--ablated_model or --ablated_text_encoder) should be used at a time, according to the model that is being analyzed.

### Concept-Level
**Note:** run from the root of the repository.

Perform a concept-level analysis:

```shell
python -m src.memory_of_an_ablated_concept \
--reference_dataset_root <path to mscoco17> \
--out_dir <out directory> \
--ablated_concept_name <nudity/vangogh/church/garbage_truck/tench/parachute> \
--dataset_root <path to the dataset of images of ablated_concept_name> \
--diffusion_inversion_method <renoise/nti> \
--num_diffusion_inversion_steps 50 \
[--ablated_model <path to the ablated model> | --ablated_text_encoder OPTML-Group/AdvUnlearn]
```

### Image-Level
Perform an image-level analysis:
```shell
python -m src.many_memories_of_an_ablated_image \
--reference_dataset_root <path to mscoco17> \
--out_dir <out directory> \
--ablated_concept_name <nudity/vangogh/church/garbage_truck/tench/parachute> \
--dataset_root <path to the dataset of images of ablated_concept_name> \
--num_vae_inversion_steps 3000 \
--diffusion_inversion_method <renoise/nti> \
--num_diffusion_inversion_steps 50
[--ablated_model <path to the ablated model> | --ablated_text_encoder OPTML-Group/AdvUnlearn]
```

# BibTex
```bib
@InProceedings{Rusanovsky_2025_CVPR,
    author    = {Rusanovsky, Matan and Malnick, Shimon and Jevnisek, Amir and Fried, Ohad and Avidan, Shai},
    title     = {Memories of Forgotten Concepts},
    booktitle = {Proceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference (CVPR)},
    month     = {June},
    year      = {2025},
    pages     = {2966-2975}
}
```

# Acknowledgments
This repository is built upon and incorporates code from [Diffusion-MU-Attack](https://github.com/OPTML-Group/Diffusion-MU-Attack), [AdvUnlearn](https://github.com/OPTML-Group/AdvUnlearn) and [Renoise](https://github.com/garibida/ReNoise-Inversion).


# Changelogs
This section highlights changes made in this fork w.r.t the original fork
- Changed instructions, treating python scripts as modules, running them with `python -m directory.module_name`, i find this make it easier to run in a Google Colab environment with `condalab`.
